# This section is now archived 
# Phase 2 Instructions for the Expert Group

Dear Team,

The **Phase 1** "Brainstorming" was highly successful and we've built an amazing team of 300+ experts.  We've generated deep discussions and copious resources on the topics related to our group.  I'm excited to inform you that we've moved into **Phase 2** of the OWASP Top 10 for Large Language Model Applications project. This phase will be divided into two "sprints" each lasting one week. Our objective during this phase is to generate version 0.5 of our Top 10 list, which will be the first version generated by the full expert group. With more than 300 experts contributing, we look forward to some excellent insights and collaboration!

## Sprint 1: Generative Sprint (NOW COMPLETE!)
**Dates: June 15th to June 22nd**

In this sprint, we're moving beyond freeform brainstorming to begin crafting concrete vulnerability definitions in the format of the OWASP Top 10. To aid you in this, we've provided a directory in our GitHub repository that contains instructions, a template, and several examples:

[0.5 Vulns Directory](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/tree/main/0_5_vulns)

As a stepping stone, please review the following materials generated during Phase 1's brainstorming sessions:

- [Educational resources](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/wiki/Educational-Resources)
- [Brainstorming notes](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/wiki/Brainstorming-Area)
- [Expert Commentary](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/wiki/Commentary)

Once you've reviewed these resources, feel free to contribute your own perspective on as many vulnerability types as you like. Please create your own copy of the template, fill it in according to the instructions, and commit your changes back to the project via a pull request. We'll commit submissions at least once daily.

## Sprint 2: Commentary and Selection (NOW ACTIVE!)
**Dates: June 23rd - June 30th**

Sprint 1 was a big success with dozens of entry submissions.  Now we need to review, evaluate and grade them to facilitate narrowing of the list.

* You may view all of the [submitted entries here](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/tree/main/0_5_vulns)
* Please fill out [this questionnaire grading](https://forms.gle/QRCMCPGVcDGJHa2P6) each submission 

We will be taking survey submissions through Monday June 26th at 5pm Pacific.  After that we will summarize the results and a smaller core we will make selections for a 0.5 version of the list.

## More Info
For more details on this phase, please refer to the recording from Meeting 2 of the expert group, which can be found on our [Meeting Page](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications/wiki/Meetings).

Thank you for your contributions to this important initiative. We're looking forward to seeing what we can accomplish together during this phase!

Thank you for your efforts and involvement!

Steve Wilson

Project Lead, OWASP Top 10 for LLM Applications